Update PQS 2.9 docs (#736)
digital-asset/docs.daml.com: docs/2.9.0/docs/query/pqs-user-guide.rst

contract's data (its create event arguments) and a choice's exercise
events (their input/output arguments) rely on strongly typed data
structures.

These data structures can be likened to tables in a relational database
as described `here <https://docs.daml.com/daml/intro/3_Data.html>`__.
However, Daml enriches these structures to such an extent that direct
Daml-to-relational mapping becomes impractical, leading you to consider
Daml contracts/events as self-contained documents rather than relational
rows. For this reason, PQS stores these contracts/events in Postgres as
`JSON
documents <https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/datatype-json.html>`__,
since a document form is a natural fit for Daml's data model.

To organize data access in a more relational-friendly manner, you need
to build project-specific abstractions on top of what PQS provides in
general terms. This document introduces techniques and patterns that can
be used to help express Daml's world through relational means.

Mapping Daml Models to Relational World
---------------------------------------

The following code represents a data cluster related to issuer approval

> of a set of token changes for an issue (irrelevant details omitted).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of a set of token changes for an issue. Irrelevant details are omitted.
```

   template IssuerApproval
     with
       requestor: Party
       transferId: Text
       issue: Issue
       opens: [ContractId TokenOpen]
       closes: [ContractId TokenClose]
     where
       signatory issue.issuer, requestor

   template TokenOpen
     with
       delegate: Party
       token: Token
     where
       signatory delegate, walletSigs token.wallet
       observer token.issue.issuer

   template TokenClose
     with
       delegate: Party
       token: Token
       tokenCid: ContractId Token
     where
       signatory delegate, walletSigs token.wallet
       observer token.issue.issuer

   template Token
     with
       issue: Issue          -- what
       wallet: Wallet        -- where
       quantity: Quantity    -- how many
       observers: Set Party
     where
       signatory issue.issuer, walletSigs wallet
       ensure quantity /= 0.0
       observer observers

   template Transfer
       ...
       choice Transfer_Settle: [ContractId Token]
           with
             issuerApprovals: [ContractId IssuerApproval]
         controller requestor
           do
             ...

In this example, you can see that the data model is rich and
interconnected:

> -  Rich value types in use (e.g. ``Quantity``, ``Lock``, ``Wallet``,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Rich value types are used, such as ``Quantity``, ``Lock``, ``Wallet``,
```

>    ``Issue``), which don't have identity on the ledger

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ``Issue``, without identity on the ledger.
```

> -  An ``IssuerApproval`` contract references (potentially multiple)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  An ``IssuerApproval`` contract references potentially multiple
```

>    ``TokenOpen`` and ``TokenClose`` contracts via their contract IDs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ``TokenOpen`` and ``TokenClose`` contracts via their contract IDs.
```

-  A ``TokenClose`` contract references a single ``Token`` contract via

>    its contract ID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   its contract ID.
```

> -  Navigable relationships with different cardinalities, but all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  There are navigable relationships with different cardinalities, but all are
```

>    unidirectional (i.e. ``TokenClose`` knows of ``Token`` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   unidirectional. For instance, ``TokenClose`` knows of ``Token`` and
```

>    ``IssuerApproval`` knows ``TokenOpen``\ s, but not vice versa)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ``IssuerApproval`` knows ``TokenOpen``\ s, but not vice versa.
```

                     |         "00d5d2f5d611c895c4ad248d9d86f06cbfe83c6f86e4dc57df8bc46010da6eac2cca021220cd400022b42b46de89bbc787404c06a5bef747630d2a6e0ac678ad6562d33445"+
                     |     ]                                                                                                                                               +
                     | }
   result            | [                                                                                                                                                   +
                     |     "0085ae477c95dd8962c8468ecabc4e2630df9a525bbefd466fe6e696237c85c530ca02122097ad429795e413c94b7f938fa8647c0ec4ea2547a70183d8c8496d03881c8aed",   +
                     |     "00aaa6a2e4631f04e1452dd6f5802ece3176536587e637ec0215bfff78e86c3cc3ca021220395671b8cd5b30184af7638683589c041c110104415568e0fd9e43951846f081"    +
                     | ]

.. raw:: html

   </details>

Postgres offers `robust
tools <https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/functions-json.html>`__

> for working with JSON data, but it may feel cumbersome if you are not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for working with JSON data, but they can be cumbersome for users who are not
```

> familiar with them. You could make this data more accessible in a more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
familiar with them. You could make this data more accessible in a
```

traditional ("rectangular") relational manner. To achieve this:

> -  Map out templates' attributes to tables' columns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Map out templates' attributes to tables' columns.
```

-  Establish Postgres's natural primary and foreign key relationships

>    between tables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   between tables.
```

> -  Compose queries that would allow us to further combine data from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Compose queries that would allow you to further combine data from
```

attached to the JVM running PQS. OpenTelemetry's documentation page on
`Automatic
Instrumentation <https://opentelemetry.io/docs/languages/java/automatic/>`__
has all the necessary information to get started.

As a frequently requested shortcut (only metrics over Prometheus
exposition endpoint embedded by PQS), the following snippet can help you
get started. For more details, refer to the official documentation:

.. code:: text

   export OTEL_SERVICE_NAME=scribe
   export OTEL_TRACES_EXPORTER=none
   export OTEL_LOGS_EXPORTER=none
   export OTEL_METRICS_EXPORTER=prometheus
   export OTEL_EXPORTER_PROMETHEUS_PORT=9464
   export JDK_JAVA_OPTIONS="-javaagent:path/to/opentelemetry-javaagent.jar"
   ./scribe.jar pipeline ledger postgres-document ...

.. code:: dockerfile

   services:
     scribe:
       image: scribe:X.Y.Z
       # ...
       environment:
         JDK_JAVA_OPTIONS: "-javaagent:path/to/opentelemetry-javaagent.jar"
         OTEL_SERVICE_NAME: scribe
         OTEL_TRACES_EXPORTER: none
         OTEL_LOGS_EXPORTER: none
         OTEL_METRICS_EXPORTER: prometheus
         OTEL_EXPORTER_PROMETHEUS_PORT: 9464
       # ...

Provided Metrics
----------------

> Assuming PQS exposes metrics as described above, it is possible to get
> the following metrics by accessing ``http://localhost:9464/metrics``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Assuming PQS exposes metrics as described above, you can access
the following metrics at ``http://localhost:9464/metrics``.
```

   pipeline_prepare_batch_latency_max{,status="success"} 0.005862959 1713928633985

   # TYPE pipeline_prepare_batch_latency histogram
   # HELP pipeline_prepare_batch_latency Latency of preparing batches of statements
   pipeline_prepare_batch_latency_count{,status="success"} 277.0 1713928633985
   pipeline_prepare_batch_latency_sum{,status="success"} 0.05226997100000001 1713928633985
   pipeline_prepare_batch_latency_bucket{,status="success",le="0.001"} 271.0 1713928633985
   ...

   # TYPE pipeline_wp_batched_statements_size_max gauge
   # HELP pipeline_wp_batched_statements_size_max Number of in-flight units of work in pipeline_wp_batched_statements wait point
   pipeline_wp_batched_statements_size_max{} 1.0 1713928633985

   # TYPE pipeline_convert_transaction_max gauge
   # HELP pipeline_convert_transaction_max Latency of converting transactions
   pipeline_convert_transaction_max{,status="success"} 0.076553251 1713928633985

   # TYPE pipeline_wp_events_size_max gauge
   # HELP pipeline_wp_events_size_max Number of in-flight units of work in pipeline_wp_events wait point
   pipeline_wp_events_size_max{} 30.0 1713928633985

   # TYPE pipeline_wp_statements_size histogram

>    # HELP pipeline_wp_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
comprehensive dashboard to monitor PQS. You may want to refer to the `Grafana
```

>    # HELP pipeline_wp_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
why the redaction has taken place, and it should be set according to
```

>    # HELP pipeline_wp_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the ``event_id`` of the exercise and a ``redaction_id``. This NULLs
```

PQS Technical User Documentation
================================

Introduction
------------

> PQS (Participant Query Store) is a component that extends the reach of

Reviewer 3: The docs have this at the beginning:  "The term operational datastore (ODS) usually refers to a database that mirrors the ledger and allows for efficient querying. The Participant Query Store (PQS) feature is an ODS for the participant node."

Can you please add something like this phrasing because customers are very familiar with the term ODS so this will orient them properly (i.e., they will want to keep reading)?

the ledger - by making it available to SQL. This enables users to use
SQL to query the state of the ledger, as well as the history of how that
state came to be.

Audience
~~~~~~~~

This documention provides guidance on what PQS achieves, how to use it,
and it's operation and limitations. The following types of users are
likely to find PQS useful:

-  Application developers: to query the ledger to display information to
   users, integrate or carry out automated business processes, and
   debugging.
-  Business analysts: to access and analyze ledger data with ad-hoc
   investigations to understand operational usage.
-  Support analysts: to diagnose any problems on a live system, when
   sophisticated inspection of the ledger is required.
-  Application operators: to take a snapshot of the ledger, either with
   or without history in order to analyse and investigate.
-  Report analysts: to provide access to ledger data information for
   analysis and aggregation with standard reporting tools, on a
   historical or real-time basis.

Purpose
~~~~~~~

> PQS can be described as a kind of

Reviewer 3: One of the concepts that needs to be emphasized is that:  "PQS is part of the PN."  We want customers to understand this.  However, these two paragraphs deemphasize this.  Can we reoritent the content to emphasize this?

I'm also not sure this is true:  "Providing read access to the data via a traditional SQL database decouples the reader from a specific Participant " since a PQS is tied directly to a PN.

`bridge <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bridge_pattern>`__ connecting the
ledger with a datastore. Providing read access to the data via a
traditional SQL database decouples the reader from a specific
Participant and enables users to leverage their existing tools and
knowledge.

The Participant's primary role is to submit and propogate transactions
in the network, which requires interaction to submit commands. PQS
sources the transaction ledger from the Participant on a streaming
basis, maintains history and state based on the events, and makes the
data available for users to query. Therefore, it alleviates the need for
the Participant to be involved in read-loads and can be scaled
independently.

Operational Architecture
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> PQS is a standalone application that is configured via command line

Reviewer 3: I may be too sensitive but can we change "application" to "process" because "application implies individuality from the PN which is not what we. are trying to suggest?

Author: Yeah application is wrong - I've changed to service as this is more abstract.

is also designed to be idempotent (or "crash tollerant") so that it can
be restarted safely at any time. It does not write anything to the
ledger but is only a passive consumer of data from a Canton Participant.

The following diagram shows that PQS initiates connections to both the
participant and the datastore: (arrows indicate the direction of
connection)

|diagram|

Similarly, from the perspective of data-flow:

|image1|

Expanding the application node from the above, you can imagine many
potential architectures, including:

|image2|

Key Feature Summary
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

PQS enables the following key capabilities:

-  Connect to the ledger and replicate a snapshot of the contract state
   at a given ledger offset, which can be nominated.
-  Continue to update the datastore with subsequent events up to a
   nominated offset or indefinitely.
-  Filter the scope by Party and/or Daml template.
-  Embed an API within the database to allow consumers to easily access
   the ledger data by:

   -  Using familiar Daml identifiers (eg.
      ``mypackage:My.Module:MyTemplate``) instead of PostgreSQL
      approximations.

>    -  Preserving Party based privacy constraints.

Reviewer 3: Could you explain what this means?  I suspect that you mean on the ingest path.  However a reader can assume it does this on the egress (SQL) path.

Author: The intent was that you can easily preserve the 'show me what is visible to party X' - but we don't do enough to make this claim yet so I'll remove.

   Commands:
     pipeline     Initiate continuous ledger data export
     datastore    Perform operations supporting a certified data store

   Run 'scribe COMMAND --help[-verbose]' for more information on a command.

Or similarly, using Docker:

.. code:: bash

   $ docker run -it digitalasset-docker.jfrog.io/participant-query-store:0.4.4 --help
   Picked up JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS: -javaagent:/open-telemetry.jar
   Usage: scribe COMMAND

   An efficient ledger data exporting tool

   Commands:
     pipeline     Initiate continuous ledger data export
     datastore    Perform operations supporting a certified data store

   Run 'scribe COMMAND --help[-verbose]' for more information on a command.

Preparing the Database
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Start by investigating the database schema that PQS will create, using
the ``datastore`` command that is used for administrative operations:

.. code:: sql

   $ ./scribe.jar datastore postgres-document schema show
   [...]
   /**********************************************************
    * generated by scribe, version: [...]                    *
    **********************************************************/
   -- tables
   create table [...]

> With the produced DDL you can create the schema yourself - or leave it

Reviewer 3: Under what circumstances would we want customers to use the DDL to create the schema?  I think they could inspect it but I'm not sure we want any customers fingers to have to be involved in setting things up because they will probably mess it up.

Author: A DBA worth their salt will want to create the db themselves, and apply the schema manually after inspecting - and not trust a tool like Scribe to do this invisibly for them. Then they know what it is doing to their db server, eg. not installing any extensions, weird collations or other server settings they are not happy with. The intent is not that they edit the schema - but inspect & apply.

Database
========

PQS supports a single datastore format known as ``postgres-document``.
This uses PostgreSQL to store the data in a document-oriented
(schemaless) way, making extensive use of JSONB.

Ledger Structure
----------------

To understand how PQS stores data, you need to understand the ledger
data model. In simple terms, the Daml ledger is composed of a sequence
of transactions, which contain events. Events can be:

-  Creates: creation of contracts / interface views.
-  Exercise: of a choice of contracts / interface views.
-  Archive: end of the lifetime of contracts / interface views.

Ledger Data Scope
-----------------

PQS can run in two modes as specified by the ``--pipeline-datasource``
configuration. The following table shows the differences between the two
modes, in terms of data availability via the respective `Read
API <#querying>`__ functions :

+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
| Mode                 | TransactionStream(1) | T                    |
|                      |                      | ransactionTreeStream |
+======================+======================+======================+

> | Transient events     | ✗                    | ✓                    |

Reviewer 3: I really like the table. A very nice breakdown.  I do have a couple of comments:
- I didn't see a definition of a "Transient event" in this user guide or in docs.daml.com.  Could we please add one?  I assume this is more about ephemeral contracts within a transaction.
- Can we indicate that one of these needs to be selected and can't be changed without dropping the PQS DB?  Using the phrase "Opt-in" suggests that this is an add-on and not mutually exclusive.
- The subsript for TransactionStream(1) (i.e., the '(1)') didn't make it through.  Not sure what it refers to.

Author: Fixed. We can't indicate what can't be changed - because you really can't change anything (template filter, party filter, Transaction Stream Type). Any change, based on the Ledger API requires a re-seed.

-  ``Alice::* | Bob::*``: any party with an ``Alice`` or ``Bob`` hint
-  ``Alice::122055fc4b190e3ff438587b699495a4b6388e911e2305f7e013af160f49a76080ab``:
   just this one party
-  ``* & !Alice::*``: all parties except those with an ``Alice`` hint
-  ``Alice* | Bob* | (Participant* & !(Participant3::*))``: ``Alice``
   and ``Bob`` parties, and all ``Participant``\ s except
   ``Participant3``

PostgreSQL Schema
-----------------

The PostgreSQL schema is designed to be generic, and not tied to any
specific Daml model. This is achieved by a fixed schema that relates to
the general ledger model, but uses a documented-oriented approach
(JSONB) to store the data whose schema lies in the Daml models.

.. note::
   Any database artifact starting with an underscore (``_``) is
   explicitly denoted an internal implementation, subject to change, and
   should not be relied upon. Every table is prefixed this way, and
   therefore all tables are not guaranteed to remain in their current
   structure as a result of future functional and performance
   enhancements.

Users should only interact with the database via the `Read
API <#querying>`__, which does provide a stable interface for users to

> rely on. DBA's who wish to have a deeper understanding of the schema

Author: I've reworded it to distinguish between data consumers (app devs, report authors) and database administrators (performance tuning). It is clear that the schema should only be used for investigation and understanding the operational aspects (ie. performance).

   needing to understand the underlying implementation, we seek to
   provide a similar experience for readers of the ledger data.
-  **Idempotent**: PQS is designed to be restarted at any time, and will
   not impact the integrity of the data. This is achieved by using
   offsets to ensure clean restarts, and ensuring that (other than the
   database itself) PQS is stateless.
-  **Watermarks**: a single thread maintains a watermark denoting the
   most recent contigous transaction - representing the offset of the
   ledger that is consistent and available. In addition, the watermark
   processes the "archive" mutation on any archived contracts or
   interface views, on a batched basis. This reintroduces data
   consistency without needing readers to perform pathalogical table
   scans to achieve this. This efficiently resolves the uncertainty
   created by the parallel writes.
-  **Schemaless content**: content defined in Daml templates uses the
   JSONB datatype to store the data. This allows for a schemaless
   approach, and is able to store any Daml model without needing to
   change the schema - other than custom JSONB indexes.

Resilience
==========

> PQS operates as a long-running process, and faces many potential threats

Reviewer 3: As written, this can be concerning to thin skinned customers.  Could I suggest:  "PQS is designed to operate as a long-running process which uses these principles to enhance availability:"

with dependencies during operation. Three mechanisms can assist in
ensuring resilience to such failures:

-  **Redundancy** involves running multiple instances of PQS in parallel
   to ensure that the system remains available even if one instance
   fails.
-  **Retry** involves healing from transient and recoverable failures
   without shutting down the process or requiring operator intervention.
-  **Recovery** entails reconciling the current state of the ledger with
   already exported data in the datastore after a cold start, and
   continuing from the latest checkpoint.

High Availability
-----------------

Multiple isolated instances of PQS can be instantiated without any
cross-dependency. This allows for an active-active high availability
clustering model. Please note that different instances might not be at
the same offset due to different processing rates and general network
non-determinism. PQS's Read API provides capabilities to deal with this
'eventual consistency' model, to ensure that readers have at least
'repeatable read' consistency. See ``validate_offset_exists()`` in the
`Read API <004-read-api.md#offset-management>`__ for more details.

> |image3|

Reviewer 3: could this figure have "gRPC" and "JDBC" labelled so that it is easy to visualize?  Readers hate to think.

   12:54:36.328 I [zio-fiber-0] com.digitalasset.scribe.pipeline.Retry.retryRecoverable:48 Recoverable JDBC exception. Attempt 5, unstable for 2 minutes 19 seconds. Remaining attempts: 38. Remaining time: 7 minutes 40 seconds. Exception in thread "zio-fiber-" java.lang.Throwable: Recoverable JDBC exception.
       Suppressed: org.postgresql.util.PSQLException: Connection to localhost:5432 refused. Check that the hostname and port are correct and that the postmaster is accepting TCP/IP connections.
           Suppressed: java.net.ConnectException: Connection refused application=scribe

Metrics
~~~~~~~

The following metrics are available to monitor stability of PQS's
dependencies. See the `observability <#observability>`__ section for
more details on general observability:

.. code:: text

   # TYPE app_restarts_total counter
   # HELP app_restarts_total Number of total app restarts due to recoverable errors
   app_restarts_total{,exception="Recoverable GRPC exception."} 5.0

   # TYPE grpc_up gauge
   # HELP grpc_up Grpc channel is up
   grpc_up{} 1.0

   # TYPE jdbc_conn_pool_up gauge
   # HELP jdbc_conn_pool_up JDBC connection pool is up
   jdbc_conn_pool_up{} 1.0

> Instability counters reset

Reviewer 3: Are these instability counters helpful for us to debug issues?  Isn't this too much to ask users to understand?  Is this best to put in an "Advanced monitoring" or "Debugging" section?

Author: Of all the metrics this is a prominant one as network instability is something everyone is going to want to monitor. I wouldn't categorize them as any more advanced than any other metric?

   x - a failure causing retry happens
   = - operating normally

In the timeline above, intermittent failures start at point A, and each
retry attempt contributes to the increase of the overall backoff
schedule. Consequently, each subsequent retry allows more time for the
system to recover. This schedule does not reset to its initial values
until after the configured period of stability is reached following the
last failure (point B), such as after operating without any failures for
5 minutes (point C).

Exit codes
~~~~~~~~~~

PQS terminates with the following exit codes:

-  ``0``: Normal termination
-  ``1``: Termination due to unrecoverable error or all retry attempts
   for recoverable errors have been exhausted

.. _ledger-streaming--recovery:

Ledger Streaming & Recovery
---------------------------

On (re-)start, PQS determines last saved checkpoint and continues
incremental processing from that point onward. PQS is able to start and
finish at prescribed ledger offsets, specified via args:

.. code:: shell

   $ ./scribe.jar pipeline --help-verbose

   Usage: pipeline SOURCE TARGET [OPTIONS]
   [...]
   Options:
   [...]

>      --pipeline-ledger-start [enum | string]    Start offset (default: Latest)

Reviewer 3: By "string", do you mean the offset number?

Author: It's not a number - it's actually a string on the Ledger API. We just happen to have a convention that it seems to be rendered as a hexademical, but we treat it as a string and we can't read anything into it other than it sorts.

Author: (this gets fixed in Canton 3.1 where it will become a number)

   discrepencies.

PQS Time Model
--------------

PQS provides all three identifiers, but it uses Offset as fundamental
ordering mechanism. In this order PQS is able to provide a complete &
consistent view of the ledger.

Offsets are deeply embedded in the Read API as a way for users to query
the ledger in a manner that preserves the level of consistency they
require. Users are able to nominate the offsets they wish to query from,
or simply query the latest available offset.

The following figure shows a pair of participants and their respective
ledgers. Each participant has its own PQS instance, and you can see that
it always has the portion of the ledger that it is authorized to see:

|image4|

We can also see that the offsets (prefix) are common to the Participant
and PQS, but the Transaction ID's (suffix) are shared throughout.

Offset Management
-----------------

The following functions control the temporal perspective of the ledger,
and allows you to control how you wish to consider time in your queries.
Since PQS exposes an eventually-consistent perspective of the ledger,
you may wish to:

-  **Ignore**; simply query the *latest available* state

> -  **Pin**; query the state of the ledger at a specific time in history

Reviewer 3: Is this a 'wall clock time' or an 'offset" because "specific time in history" is ambiguous to a new user?

Author: You can either pin via time, or offset. I think this sentence refers to a concept, there are many different implementations (record time, effective time, offset..) you can use.

token. Versions 2.9+ fail with code ``ABORTED`` and description
``ACCESS_TOKEN_EXPIRED`` and PQS will reestablish the streaming call
from an offset of the last successfully processed transaction.

History Slicing
===============

As described in `Ledger Streaming &
Recovery <003-resilience.md#ledger-streaming--recovery>`__ you can use
PQS with ``--pipeline-ledger-start`` and ``--pipeline-ledger-stop`` to
ask for slice of the history you want. There are some constraints on
start and stop offsets you should be aware of and PQS will fail-fast
when they are violated.

You cannot use:

1. **Offsets that are outside ledger history**

|image5|

|image6|

|image7|

2. **Pruned offsets or Genesis on pruned ledger**

|image8|

3. **Offsets that will lead to a gap in datastore history**

|image9|

4. **Offset that is before PQS datastore history**

|image10|

.. note::
   In above examples:

   -  **Request** represents offsets requested via:
      ``--pipeline-ledger-start`` and ``--pipeline-ledger-stop``
      arguments.
   -  **Participant** represents the availability of unpruned ledger
      history in the Participant.
   -  **Datastore** represents data in the PQS database.

> Reset Procedure

Reviewer 3: Can we add an introduction why a user might want to do this?

      SELECT pg_terminate_backend(pid) FROM pg_stat_activity WHERE pid <> pg_backend_pid( ) AND datname = current_database( )..

-  Obtain a summary of the scope of the proposed reset, and validate the
   intended outcome matches your expectations (ie. dry-run)

   .. code:: sql

      SELECT * FROM validate_reset_offset("0000000000000A8000")

-  Implementing the destructive changes of removing all transactions
   after the given offset, and adjust internal metadata to allow PQS
   resume processing from the supplied offset:

   .. code:: sql

      SELECT * FROM reset_to_offset("0000000000000A8000")

-  Re-enable access for PQS database users (``GRANT CONNECT``..)

-  Wait for the Participant to be available post-repair

-  Start PQS

-  Conduct any remedial action required in PQS database consumers, to
   account for the fact that the ledger will appear to be rolled-back to
   the specified offset

-  Start applications that use the PQS database & resume operation

.. _constraints-1:

Constraints
-----------

The provided target offset must be within the bounds of the contiguous
history. If the target offset is outside the bounds, an error will be
raised.

.. _configuration-1:

> Configuration

Reviewer 3: Could we move this earlier?

Author: Done.

      schema.autoApply = true
   }

Please consult the command ``./scribe.jar pipeline --help-verbose`` for
extensive help information on individual configuration items.

Commonly used configuration arguments include:

More advanced expressions can make use of brackets, such as
``--pipeline-parties="Alice* | Bob* | (participant* & !(participant3::*))"``.

> Handle Configuration Changes

Reviewer 3: This really needs to be much earlier.  It is very important information.  I'd bet a months wages that the reader who is trying to install PQS won't get to this point.

Author: I'm not sure where it can go - it is important, but you need to understand it in the context of what configuration is?

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

PQS initializes its behavior on startup by reading its configuration
files. It does not perform dynamic configuration updates, so making a
configuration change (such as adding a new party, new template, or new
interface) requires a restart.

When the configuration changes, the default is that PQS will not go back
in time (older offset) but only move forward in time (current watermark
offset and newer). If the database is dropped, then PQS can be started
at the oldest, unpruned offset of the participant node and use the
Participant node history to extract the events based on the updated
configuration.

Java Virtual Machine (JVM) Configuration
----------------------------------------

JVM configuration is important to ensure that PQS has enough resources
to run efficiently. At minimum the following should be considered for
any realistic deployment:

.. code:: text

   -XX:+AlwaysPreTouch
   -XX:-UseAdaptiveSizePolicy

   # containers:
   -XX:InitialRAMPercentage=75.0
   -XX:MaxRAMPercentage=75.0

   # host/vm:
   -Xms4g
   -Xmx4g

> You may want to consider collecting heap-dumps if an out-of-memory error

Reviewer 3: How about ... "In some situations an out-of-memory error may occur.  To diagnose this, you will need to collect heap-dumps."

configuration:

.. code:: text

   -XX:+HeapDumpOnOutOfMemoryError
   -XX:HeapDumpPath=/store/path

If you wish to have more detailed logging for diagnosis, you can adjust
the ``--logger-level`` parameter to ``Debug`` or ``Trace``. However, be
aware that this will generate a lot of log output and may impact
performance. Therefore it is recommended you de-scope particularly
verbose components (such as Netty) to ``Info`` level. This can be done
by adding the following arguments:

.. code:: text

   --logger-level=Debug
   --logger-mappings-io.netty=Info
   --logger-mappings-io.grpc.netty=Info

Setting the Ledger API queue-length can trade-off between memory usage
and performance. The default value is 128, and can be increased to
deliver more stable performance, at the cost of requiring additional
memory. Note that the buffer will consume memory equal to the size of
transactions in a rolling window of the buffer size:

.. code:: text

   --source-ledger-buffersize=1024

PostgreSQL Configuration
------------------------

PostgreSQL is the datastore that PQS uses to store the ledger data, but
it also needs to consider the read-load that is placed on it by ledger

> data consumers. A qualified DBA is required to tune PostgreSQL for a

Reviewer 3: How about ... "A good starting point for the PostgreSQL settings is as follows:  
<<postgres settings>>

In some cases where high performance is required, a DBA will need to tune PostgreSQL for the particular workload and infrastructure."

   .. code:: json

      {"timestamp":"2024-01-17T00:16:31","level":"INFO","location":"com.digitalasset.scribe.pipeline.pipeline.Impl:34","description":"Starting pipeline on behalf of 'Alice_1::1220ee13431ac437d454ea59d622cfc76599e0846a3caf166b4306d47b1bf83944a6'","scribe":{"application":"scribe"}}
      {"timestamp":"2024-01-17T00:16:33","level":"INFO","location":"com.digitalasset.scribe.pipeline.pipeline.Impl:61","description":"Last checkpoint is absent. Seeding from ACS before processing transactions with starting offset '00000000000000000b'","scribe":{"application":"scribe"}}
      {"timestamp":"2024-01-17T00:16:34","level":"INFO","location":"com.digitalasset.zio.daml.ledgerapi.package:201","description":"Contract filter inclusive of 1 templates and 0 interfaces","scribe":{"application":"scribe"}}
      {"timestamp":"2024-01-17T00:16:35","level":"INFO","location":"com.digitalasset.scribe.pipeline.pipeline.Impl:85","description":"Continuing from offset '00000000000000000b' and index '0' until offset '00000000000000000b'","scribe":{"application":"scribe"}}

   Notice you need to use ``%label{your_label}{format}`` to describe
   Json attribute-value pair.

> Database Schema Evolution

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't this be called something like "upgrading PQS"?

Author: Schema Evolution is a very specific term that refers to how you manage a schema throughout it's lifecycle - and evolve it, it's not really about upgrading though that's when it happens (?)

permanent removal of contract payloads, contract keys, choice arguments,
and choice results. Note that redaction is a destructive operation and
once redacted, information cannot be restored.

The redaction process involves assigning a ``redaction_id`` to a
contract or an exercise and nullifying its sensitive data fields. For
contracts, the ``payload`` and ``contract_key`` fields are redacted,
while for exercises, the ``argument`` and ``result`` fields are
redacted.

Conditions for Redaction
------------------------

Redaction is allowed for:

-  Contracts that are inactive (archived). ie. active contracts cannot
   be redacted.
-  Contracts that have not already been redacted.
-  Any choice exercise

A redaction operation requires a redaction ID, which is an arbitrary
label to identify the redaction and provide information about its
reason, and correlate with other systems that coordinate such activity.

Examples
--------

Redacting an Archived Contract
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To redact an archived contract, use the ``redact_contract`` function by
providing the ``contract_id`` and a ``redaction_id``. This operation

> nullifies the ``payload`` and ``contract_key`` of the contract and

Reviewer 3: I think we need to explain what 'nullifies' means because this is open to interpretation.
